I saw a documentary about American
boxing many many years ago I probably
saw the documentary 20 years ago and
probably the film was made 10 years
before that so my apologies to the
American boxing league the information
I'm going to share with you now is
probably way out of date but in that
documentary the filmmaker asked someone
asked an expert what is the evidence
that boxing in the United States America
is corrupt that the the League standings
so to speak are controlled by corrupt
mafia and business concerns and
what-have-you that they were established
through bribery and he said well here
I'll show you what the league standings
are according to the different
authorities ultimately these authorities
are linked to different belts and titles
they said the top ten lists for who's
the best boxer and who's the worst they
have no resemblance to one another in
these these different league standings
because they're all based on these
corrupt criteria and the guy argued look
if there were any legitimacy to this
boxing league system at all maybe
there'd be a 10% difference between one
version of the top ten and another maybe
there'd be a 20% difference but you
couldn't possibly have this kind of
total day and night difference between
the evaluation of who's winning and
who's losing in the world of boxing this
this inconsistency is itself a really
powerful sign that something is wrong
here something is corrupt so in the same
way I just want to start by stating the
total difference in the methods being
advanced for language learning both in
you know formal university institutional
settings and by language coaches experts
and gurus here on YouTube that is
already a hint that there is something
very fundamentally wrong with this world
of for-profit language teaching I have
some other red flags about laoshu in
particular English is his first language
and yet I notice his command of the
English language itself is remarkably
poor here he says if you worry
women I would be in love with you close
quote
so this is women as apparently a
spelling error for woman that's not the
sort of error most English speakers make
in their own first language
here's another title he typed out Somali
man shocked by black American in
convenient store a right convenient
store not convenience store this
disappeared as an intentionally made
misspelling in a Canadian comedy show of
famous comedy TV show called Trailer
Park Boys two of these kind of high
school dropouts opened a convenience
store and they they both spelled it and
pronounced in this way again that the
reason why that's a funny joke is
because it's an error a native speaker
of English would never make as someone
who has ostensibly if not actually
devoted his life to language learning
and language teaching there seems to be
a lot wrong with laoshu even looking at
his first language so now going to quote
for you an opinion from reddit they'll
give you the source at the end of this
quotation I did not write this myself
and I actually don't agree with this
criticism a hundred percent but I think
again it raises serious salient
questions quote I just googled the flr
method and when I finally found a page
that wasn't trying to sell me stuff I
wasn't sure if I should have been
disappointed in the method for being
even lower than my low expectation from
what I can gather the goal of the method
is not to learn languages the goal of
the method is to memorize stock phrases
mainly questions and answers as a whole
package meaning you aren't actually
learning words and grammar you are
memorizing a fixed and extremely limited
amount of strings of sounds off of which
you run an algorithm question a requires
answers a 1 plus a 2 after that s
question B this isn't being
conversational this is being a recording
right he's making an interesting point
here even deeper there's the concern
that in your first three months for six
months studying a language if you
memorize the
long strings if you do phrasebook
methodology like this and you just drill
single phrases you're not learning the
smaller components that make up words so
in some languages what you need to learn
are morphemes in some languages you need
to learn something like a stem or a root
in some languages you need to learn an
infinite an infinitive form of a verb
and then how that relates to the
particular use of the verb um it's not
as simple as saying morphemes as opposed
to whole words because if we're
generalizing your abut all languages in
the world
I mean Chinese there are even graphical
components of the word that aren't
pronounced we have to learn visually
what makes up the symbol that expresses
the word apart from the sound and
what-have-you on the other hand of
course Chinese doesn't have gender
doesn't even have singular versus plural
or you know past tense or what have you
but nevertheless so you know that there
are actually components within the words
you should be learning from day one and
if you don't learn them then later you
have to unlearn the bad habits you've
gotten into by learning whole phrases
and sometimes there are shall we say
aspects of the word that are external to
the morphemes like they're not within
the word written there whether that's
learning something like an infinitive or
gender there's a lot of this other kind
of apparatus of language that if you
don't learn it near for six months
you're later gonna be struggling against
the bad habits you've learned the bad
things you know okay so just to finish
this quotation learning phrases per se
is not a bad thing especially in the
beginning but then claiming that just
because you can replay a bunch of fixed
sounds in six combinations means your
quote-unquote conversational is nothing
but bass Charlatans tree so that
condemnation was certainly harsh and not
at all half-hearted or halfway so I now
think to be fair I have to play Lao
shoes on pitch for his method let's hear
that out and you'll notice that he is
not recommending this as a self-evident
and adequate way to learn a language for
ever and ever he is talking about the
first six months and his main claim is
that his method will
you to remain highly motivated and get
results within those first six months
and then you transition to more of an
analytical and grammatical approach to
the language I start at a natural way
and then I spent six months doing it
naturally after six months then I start
getting some grammar stuff and start
getting it trying to understand grammar
concepts you know after six months then
it wouldn't affect me as it would if I
was just starting and language that's a
complete beginner but if you look at
level one it's all phrases and key words
every week this which is up a different
keyword phrases do that's like three
months worth of material right there
that I just explained to you just
described that's how set that up now
like I said that's not all if you want
to go further there's more more to that
you have to learn you know to increase
your vocabulary you know and that's what
I do you know it's not all about just
learn questions and answer stuff it's
more to it and if you go through all
levels you will see the progression it's
abused progression from level one going
all the way up but the question is are
you willing to put that time in and put
that effort in are you are you willing
to put that work in to learn all that
stuff so let's contrast this to the
world of diet and exercise it may seem
like there are very fundamental
differences between what different diet
gurus tell you to do in the first six
months or different gym coaches tell you
to do in the first six month but you
know what with the exception of a few
insane crackpots all of them are based
on counting the number of calories
counting the number of grams of protein
counting the number of grams of fat
lifting weight progressively heavier
weights there are broad outlines here
that are very fundamentally similar with
different coaches for health and weight
loss we could definitely draw out the
scientific outlines of what almost all
diet and exercise advice has in common
and what we find with language learning
is that there is no such common ground
if you contrast Luca Lum perello sorry
for Miss Brown surname and laoshu here
if you contrast the various leading
competing for-profit gurus what they
recommend in terms of language learning
protocol language learning methodology
they're fundamentally and profoundly
different from one another and the world
of university teaching the methods used
there in the classroom is profoundly
different again so something's wrong
here there's something worth examining
there's something worth reflecting on no
I'm not going to end this video to just
leave you wondering what's the solution
to the riddle and so I'm going to
destroy the mystery right here and now
and it's twofold one outcome evaluation
what none of these people are doing is
evaluating outcomes right if we really
wanted to know which method was more
effective efficient which had better
outcomes
we'd have to measure the input and the
output we'd have to actually keep track
of how many students from Lao shoes
program achieved what level in how much
time with how much effort with how much
money right and I have sat in classrooms
face to face with the University Dean
the head of the department and the head
language teacher pushing universities on
that issue why is it that you're not
evaluating how much Chinese these
students actually learn when they spend
like $20,000 in four years to learn
Chinese from you and the outcomes are
they can barely put a sentence together
unless you know the professor is
cheating because in that same meeting
where I met with the professor and the
head of the department staff they were
like oh but this girl Mimi can speak
Chinese so well that's because Mimi's
mom is Chinese she grew up speaking
Chinese in her living room and singing
Chinese karaoke it doesn't count to get
you students who came into the program
already you know halfway fluent or
growing up with the language of their
family but they really did reach that
kind of thing works like look you know I
noticed you guys are not measuring
outcomes you're not measuring the actual
whole degree of ability that you
achieved by using terrible methods like
having 40 students sit in a classroom
listen to an audio CD that the professor
presses play LAN and then doing a
multiple multiple choice checklist style
test in class every day chief remarkably
after four years and twenty thousand
dollars it seems like those students
speak way less Chinese than I managed to
learn in seven months living in could
mean China using really intensive
methods that I'm not going to now
describe by contrast right so it would
come evaluation measuring the outcomes
would be crucial to backing up the claim
that Lao shus method is more effective
than luca's method or that luca's method
is more effective than university
methods or that one University's methods
are more effective than another so on
and so forth and just like diet and
exercise the way that gurus for-profit
language courses get around this
fundamental problem is by putting the
emphasis almost entirely on the magical
and difficult to measure world of
motivation so I may not be able to prove
to you that my clients as a trainer at
the gym can now lift 200 pounds and
before they can only lift 150 pounds or
that they lost weight you know they they
used to weigh 300 pounds and now they
only weigh 200 pounds those would be
objective measures of outcomes right but
what I can talk about what I can package
and sell you infinitely in many
different forms with no limit is this
concept of motivation because what
really matters for your personal fitness
for your weight-loss journey for gaining
strength of the gym is what motivates
you and what you got to pay me for and
why you got to buy my book and watch my
videos is motivation motivation
motivation and what I see here online
and it's not a complete scam there is
something to it is that people are
asking you to pay their money not for
them to teach you the language but
really for them to give you a bunch of
pep talks that boil down to motivation
and the faith that people have that if
only they were highly motivated enough
they could climb in
Milton they could learn any language and
hate to tell you this guys if you go
back to outcome evaluation that is just
not true if you're the most highly
motivated hard-working person in the
world but you're using bad methods you
get bad results at the gym you get
injured you get weaker instead of
stronger you get fatter instead of
thinner great in language learning trust
me trust me I've met people who lived in
Thailand and spoke the Thai language
every day for 10 years and still never
picked up the rudiments of how to put a
sentence together they didn't know which
words were the verb and which was the
noun and which was the adjective in the
sentence in a monosyllabic language like
Thai you can you cannot know those
things they didn't know when something
was the suffix of one word or the prefix
of the next word the really profoundly
had misapprehended things the language
and those those bad habits they picked
up by starting off with phrase book
knowledge rote memorization repeating
dialogues the same way it allows you
endorses those became you know
deep-seated inculcated habits of mind
that they never did overcome in language
learning there really is the equivalent
of destroying your health at the gym and
if getting weaker when you're working
hard thinking you're getting stronger